
Hello World we are Team Instructure! My name is Colleen Masterson, I am 16 years old, and a high school student at Lane Tech College Prep. Abril Vela is 18 years old and will be studying computer engineering at the University of Michigan. Abril and I met through our mutual passion for building and programming robots! She introduced me to her organization called Chicago Girls in Computing where I became more involved in the world of computing. After both becoming Rails Conf Opportunity Scholars and attending a ruby workshop, our mentor Liz Abinante told us about Rails Girls Summer of Code. We both jumped at the opportunity to work on Rails Girls Summer of Code. We are one of the six volunteer teams. However, Instructure generously offered us positions as paid interns! We have the luxury of working side by side with our mentors in the same office. 

Our Project:

Our project is called NoteTree. Note tree is an application that will be integrated through Instructure’s Canvas. It is an LTI (Learning Tool Interoperability), which means that it will be an external app that interacts with a single platform (Canvas). Every student takes different things away from a lecture. Our goal for this project is to create an environment in which students can collectively share their notes between lectures. Teachers will be able to create courses, add students, and assign note taking as a graded assignment. Students will be able to view their classmates notes and leave comments about what they like or don’t like about the notes. 

Our experiences so far: 

I find this project to be challenging because I have never programmed in ruby before. I definitely stepped outside of my comfort zone. In just a short amount of time I have learned so much about web development and I am extremely grateful for being introduced to the world of computer science at a young age. Abril entered this summer with slightly more experience than me. However, she has also had to work remotely a large chunk of the summer. This taught her valuable lessons about how to work with a team that you cannot physically interact with on a day to day basis. She is also extremely grateful for the opportunity to explore web development and plans on working on continuing to improve her web development skills throughout the years to come. This has been an amazing summer filled with many screenshots of the fun we’ve had working with Instructure. 



Make sure to check out our blog! 



